1.	A variable in a bit of text that is used to represent a large amount of information or data which can be refered to its value and can occur in the form of stirngs, intergers, booleans, methods, or other variables. 
Programmers use variables to recall other information or data within a program so that instead of having to retype or or input all of the necessary information it can be recalled in the form of of a variable which is much more functional and practical given the size of text generally used. 

2.	First the variable 'last_name' is evaluated by ruby and then replaced with the string value "Lincoln". Second, the variable 'first_name' is evaluated and then replaced with the string value "Abraham." Next ruby recognizes that the two varaibles are compatible since they are both string vlaues and so can be added together thus are combined. Ruby then evaluates the variable 'full_name' and then assigns the new string vlaue "AbrahamLincoln" to that variablel.  

3.	
string - any read text in ruby
to display text for a user to read

interger - all numbers
when trying to quantify variables

float - ineter expressed with decmal
when trying to precicesly quantify variables

nil - default value of nothing, no return value

boolean -  true or false value/statement/variable
creating binary conditions 

4.	
algorithm - a process of calculation given a set of ordered commands and rules 

5.	
Two common categories of algorithm in computer science
list, arrays, and stacks & hash functions.

6.	
What is a method? Why might a programmer choose to use a method?
set of code that can be called at any point within a program.
Methods are more sufficient and processing multiple points of data and more effective when you have different bits of code that need to collaborate. 

7.	
Return value
type of return the method puts out given the declared value 
Side effect 
An unintended return or outcome from a method 
Parameter 
the variable that is part of the method's declaration
Argument
the information that taken or sent to the method and gets processed or modified and used to return specfic results given what the code in the method does. 
Implicit Return 
The return value of the last evaluated expression in a method in cascading order. 

Global scope is the space of a scripton that encompasses information or data accessible out side of a function, basically vairables defined outside of a function fall into the global scope.
Because not all data is entirely availaible in all realms of a program, that is, not all variables are accessible by all the parts of code, it can restrict how certain codes funtion and how it may need to be written to do what it was intended for.

9.	
Contorl flow:
The management of data moving between to points, i.e. computers, etc. within a network so data is processed at a effecient pace. The prevention of a data based version of a traffic jam or highway collision. 
Prorams would choose to use this to prevent a program from crashing from exectuing too much at once.

10. 
'Loop' refers to the re-running of code within a method until a condition or a desired result is met. This prevents repeating code to to do the same task until that desired result or condition is met.

'If' can create specfic condtions that results in a return value rather then having to arrive at the same condition in theory through much more necessary coding. 'Else' and 'Elsif' do the same as compliments to the 'If' method. 

'While' and 'until' are the variables that call a built in method that results in a loop, in Ruby. 'While' will generally creates a loop until a condition is met while until creates a false/negative condition that loops until is met.


